Into this section on architecting on AWS
and the AWS ecosystem.
So first we're going to talk about
the well architected framework
and the general guiding principles.
So in the cloud, when you want to have a good architecture
you need to stop guessing your capacity needs.
Instead, you should use auto scaling
and scale the based on what the actual demand
on your system is going to be.
You should also test your system at production scale.
In the cloud
you can create as many resources as you want
very, very quickly.
And as such there is no reason why,
for example, for one hour
you couldn't test a system at production scale.
This allows you in the future to make sure that your system
is ready when you actually publish it to your customers.
Now, it's also very important
to automate to make architectural experimentation easier.
So for this CloudFormation is very important
because if you get infrastructure as code
then you can easily create an architecture
on different accounts and different regions.
Also using platform as a service,
such as Beanstalk could be very helpful
to experiment quickly.
You should also allow to make your architecture evolve.
So you need to design based on changing requirements.
That means that when you migrate a workload
from on premises to the cloud,
maybe at first you make it match one to one,
but then you try to rethink
how can I leverage the cloud better,
making it serverless for example.
Then drive architectures using data.
It's not good to guess.
It's good to look at what the actual usage is.
What are the patterns?
What are the queries?
And then drive your architecture
and use the right services based on what you actually need
based on this data.
Also improve through game days.
So that means that you simulate applications
for flash sale days, and this will stress your system.
And by stressing your system
you will know if you are doing well.
So for example, I'll give you an example,
Netflix they have something called the chaos monkey
and it's a program that's in their EC2 environment
goes ahead and terminates EC2 instance at random
in production.
And they see thanks to this chaos monkey
if they are ready for failures
if they're ready for big spikes,
if they're ready for errors.
So it's super important
to think that now you are in the cloud,
you have new capabilities.
So you need to start you need to start thinking
like you are using the cloud.
So the design principles
when using the cloud and the best practices.
The first one is to be scalable.
So we've seen the vertical scalability
and the horizontal scalability
also because we can easily create and remove servers.
We have disposable resources.
So your servers should be easily disposable
and easily configured.
If you put too much configuration onto a server
and somehow that server, if lost
will be losing its resource as well
you will need to have maybe three days of work again
to reconfigure that server
if you haven't done things properly.
In the cloud everything is supposed to be disposable
including your infrastructure.
And so you need to make sure to back up your data
you need to make sure that you back up your configuration
and that you have ways to very, very quickly
reconfigure your entire architecture.
Automation.
So these are guided by the principles of serverless,
infrastructure as a service, auto scaling and so on.
Loose coupling, which is very important.
So when you have an application at first,
(mumbles) it's called a monolith.
That means it's an application that can do everything.
And over time, the more you add onto the application
the bigger it becomes.
And because it's a monolith
it could be difficult to maintain and difficult to scale.
Instead, you should break it down into smaller
loosely coupled components so that maybe they will be linked
through SNS or SQS or by other means.
And the idea is that a change or a failure in one component
should not cascade to the other components
because in the cloud, again
things can fail and you need to be prepared for failure.
Finally, think in services, not servers.
So you could just use EC2 but it's not recommended.
EC2 would be to translate whatever you have on premises
in the cloud but think in terms of services
what managed services can you use databases, serverless
et cetera, that can make your life a lot easier.
So this is where the well architect framework
which is made of six pillars comes in.
The first one is operational excellence.
The second one is security.
The third one, reliability,
the fourth one performance efficiency,
fifth one cost optimization and six one sustainability.
And the idea is that by acting with these six pillars
you are having good architecture on AWS.
So they're not something you want to balance
and compromise between them or trade offs,
they're actually a synergy.
So for example, when you prove your operational excellence
you're probably also improving your cost optimization.
So the next six lectures are all about
doing a deep dive into all of these
to understand what they mean in AWS.
I hope you're excited
and I will see you in the next lecture.